<span style="color: orange;">Bootcamp Outline:</span>

- Blockchain Basis
- End-to-end projects
- Going to Production (Production pipeline)

<span style="color: orange;">Tutors:</span>
Project guy - Jacob Creech
Teach guy - Brianna Migliaccio
Handy lady - Mike MacCana

<span style="color: orange;">Projects Built:</span>

1. Favorites program
2. Voting application
3. Blinks and Actions

<span style="color: orange;">Languages Used:</span>

- Rust
- Typescript

--Start Date:
02:31AM - 02/11/2024 (WAT)

---

<span style="color: orange;">General Assumption:</span>

In this written guide which is based on the Bootcamp course, it is assumed that you are using either a Linux machine or have WSL2 installed on your Windows machine provided you are on Windows. If you are a Mac user, the bootcamp course makes provision for you, and you might still find the contents of this guide to be non-conflicting with your machine. Stick around!

If you are on a Windows machine, but do not have WSL2 already installed, please do so now by first opening your `Windows Powershell` and then running command -

```bash
wsl --install
```

If you are on Windows machine, and already have WSL1 installed, stick around. Sooner or later, you will upgrade to WSL2 in the process of following this written guide.

Also, if you are on a Windows machine, and are using WSL and perhaps unsure about what directory to use as your project's working directory, may I suggest something similar to - `cd ../../../../home/<your-user-name>`, so we can be on the same page (no pun intended) about stuff and the bootcamp in general.

---

<span style="color: orange;">IMPORTANT SOLANA GLOSSARY OF TERMS:</span>

- <span style="color: orangered;">Account:</span>
  A record in the Solana ledger that either holds data or is an executable program. An account is addressable by a key, often referred to as a public key or pubkey.

- <span style="color: orangered;">App:</span>
  A front-end application that interacts with a Solana cluster.

- <span style="color: orangered;">Client:</span>
  A computer program that accesses the Solana server network cluster.

- <span style="color: orangered`;">Program:</span>
  Onchain program / smart contract.

- <span style="color: orangered;">Onchain program:</span>
  The executable code on Solana blockchain that interprets the 'instructions' sent inside of each 'transaction' to read and modify accounts over which it has control. These programs are often referred to as "smart contracts" on other blockchains.

- <span style="color: orangered;">Instructions:</span>
  A call to invoke a specific instruction handler in a program. An instruction also specifies which accounts it wants to read or modify, and additional data that serves as auxiliary input to the 'instruction handler'. A 'client' must include at least one instruction in a 'transaction', and all instructions must complete for the transaction to be considered successful.

- <span style="color: orangered;">Transaction:</span>
  One or more instructions signed by a client using one or more keypairs and executed atomically with only two possible outcomes: success or failure.
