<h3>What are Tokens</h3>

Let us talk about tokens and also make our own token. so far the only token we have discussed is SOL, which we use to pay transaction fees when making our favorites and voting contracts.

- SOL is the native token of Solana, which means it is built into Solana itself. But if you use Blockchain in the real world, you have probably used many tokens other than SOL. On Solana, these are called SPL tokens. If you are wondering about the name, SPL is the Solana Program Library. A bunch of smart contracts which include the program you use to create and transfer tokens.

For the rest of the course, thus in this guidebook also, we will just refer to SPL tokens as tokens.

- Tokens are used to represent everything apart from SOL. There are tokens for stable coins like USDC, NFTs, and real world assets like equities, metals, commodities, dog tokens, and nearly anything else.

Tokens are produced by Token-Mints. Token mints are factories that make a particular token. The factory is run by a person called the Mint-Authority. The mint-authority must sign all the transactions that mint new tokens. Each distinct token on Solana has its own mint. For example, when I purchased my beer earlier, I paid with USDC, a popular stable coin - a token whose value is tied to a fiat currency like the USD. USDC is made by a company called Circle, and they have the token' mint address published on their wesite. The company Circle is the mint-authority for USDC.

- When we create our own mint with the token program, we will set ourselves as the mint-authority. The mint-authority can mint, i.e create new SPL tokens into any address including their own. When an account receives the tokens, it will need to store these tokens somewhere since regular accounts only store SOL. So the account will create an Associated-Token-Account to store that.

An associated-token-account is just a PDA with the seeds made from the wallet address, and the token mint address. For example, I can always find Alice's USDC token account by looking up the PDA based on her wallet address and the USDC mint. And I can always find Bob's USDC token account by looking up the PDA based on his wallet address and the USDC mint And I can always find Alice's dog token account by looking up the PDA based on her wallet address and the dog token mint. You get the idea. Let's make a token.

---

Timestamp - [03:34:49 - 03:37:02]
