What is blockchain and how does it work?

<span style="color: orange;">What Blockchain Is:</span>

A distributed database that

- is a ledger
- is stored in multiple locations around the world
- has no central authority

<span style="color: orange;">Good to Know 1</span>: A block is a bundle of transactions.

<span style="color: orange;">Good to Know 2:</span> Blockchain uses digital signatures for peer to peer digital verification - it contains information about a transaction like the currency used, time of transaction, and the state of a transaction (which lets you know whether or not the transaction is successful).

Solana lets you perform fast secure payments in any currency such as Bitcoin.

<span style="color: orange;">What a Smart Contract Is:</span>

- They are programs that run on blockchain as its hosting service or cloud provider

- Smart contracts are like APIs invoked by instructions instead of HTTP requests.

- Smart contracts write changes out to the blockchain as an effect just like an api gives reponses as an effect of being used.

- Smart contracts extend blockchain beyond simple payments, such as, lending money without a bank, exchanging items directly with each other, create lottery without a lottery issuer, e.t.c

<span style="color: orange;">Cryptography In Blockchain:</span>

Users of blockchain each have a keypair (private key & public key)

<span style="color: orange;">Good to Know 3:</span> private keys are used to sign transactions which proves that you made a transaction while your public key is an address where people can go to for transactions with you.

<span style="color: orange;">Solana Wallet:</span>
Is an address with a small balance of 'Sol'. Users can interact with a Solana smart contract using 'sol'. For example, a user's private key can be instructed to sign a transaction on the Solana blockchain, then transfer the Sol using the system program's transfer function, and then write a note about the transaction using the system's memo program's memo function (of the smart contract, maybe? or perhaps of the Solana blockchain). These steps are called instructions.

<span style="color: orange;">Key Takeway:</span>

You as a Solana Developer would create Solana apps that interact with a Solana client's account / Solana ledger that is either an executable program or contains data for the Solana client - a computer program that accesses the Solana server network cluster, and your app interacts with the Solana account by executing smart contracts or so-called 'onchain programs' on the Solana blockchain which invoke instruction handlers to handle the client-signed instruction / initiated transaction that modify the client's account.
