<span style="color: orange;">Project Memo:</span>
A smart contract to save your favorite things to the blockchain.

<span style="color: orange;">Lessons:</span>

- How you can save, update, and delete information from the blockchain.
- How to sign transactions. Using signing to control access in a smart contract.

<span style="color: orange;">Tool Used:</span> Solana playground.

What is Solana playground?
It is a tool provided by Solana that lets you quickly create Solana programs / smart contracts directly in your web browser without installing anything on your local machine.

<span style="color: orange;">Good to Know 1:</span> In solana, your smart contract or solana programs can be used to store additional data besides keypairs for a user of the smart contract in what is called 'Program Derived Addresses'.

<span style="color: orange;">Good to Know 2:</span>
What is a PDAs (Program Derived Addresses)? They are not made from a public key. They are made from seeds, which can be anything of your choosing as the programmer of the smart contract.

<span style="color: orange;">Example 1 of a PDA:</span>
For example, you can make a PDA from a config file's string value as its seed. "You an make a PDA from the seed config as a string". So when you need to find your program config, look for the PDA made from that seed and you'll find your seed. This effectively suggests to me that the config string value is used as a seed which is encrypted into a PDA, and then such PDA would be decrypted to its seed - the config string.

<span style="color: orange;">Example 2 of a PDA:</span>
Storing someone's review of a movie. Here's a seeding idea to make such a PDA - a combination of the reviewer (user Alice)'s wallet address and the string "Titanic" to the store the movie review.
And for another user - Bob, you can combine Bob's wallet address and his reviewed movie name "Titanic" to store his review.

<span style="color: orange;">What a PDA conceptually is:</span>
A row of data whereby each seed in the PDS is the primary key used to find the actual data associated with the seed.
