<h3>Find Out How to Create a Solana App Quickly from an Official Template</h3>

Do the following in the order listed:

<span style="color: orange;">1.</span> Inside your `WSL` terminal, `cd` or `mkdir` the directory of your choice for the project. In my case it looks like this `/home/<my-user-name>/solana-bootcamp/bootcamp-temp`.

<br />

<span style="color: orange;">2.</span> Run an npx command to create a new Solana app using a ready-made template:

```bash
npx create-solana-dapp
```

<b>Please Note:</b>

If you asked for permission to install for example `create-solana-dapp@4.1.0`, simply press the 'Enter' key on your keyboard to proceed.

In the Solana bootcamp, the name of the app was - `voting-dapp`, the selected framework was - `Next.js`, the selected template was - `next-tailwind-counter (Next.js + Tailwind CSS + Anchor Counter Example)`.

--it takes a while to install via npm, so now might be the right time to go have some snack or distract yourself with something else.

<br />

<span style="color: orange;">3.</span> Cd in to the `voting-dapp`, and run the npm installation command (you can use npm locally):

```bash
npm i
```

On my WSL (2) installation on my Windows 10 machine, `Installing via npm` never completes (I don't know I didn't stick around beyond 3 hours to find out if it would still finish the install). If that is the case for you too, don't panic, simple cancel the installation and do the following:

- Install a lower version of Node using nvm:

```bash
nvm install 23.0.0
```

- Downgrade to a lower version of npm:

```bash
npm install npm@9.7.1 -g
```

- Use Node version 23.0.0 (although you may find that nvm already uses this version especially if you have just installed it):

```bash
nvm use 23.0.0
```

Reference - [https://github.com/npm/cli/issues/7857#issuecomment-2424107768](https://github.com/npm/cli/issues/7857#issuecomment-2424107768)

- Optionally exit out of WSL, re-open it, and cd into the directory containing your project. For me, my project's cd command was `$: cd ../../../../home/<my-user-name>/solana-github/bootcamp-temp/voting-dapp`

<br />

<span style="color: orange;">4.</span> Run the now installed `voting-dapp` using npm with command:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Please note that if you had problems with your project and had to tweak your installed `Node` and `nmp` versions, it would be best for you to delete your existing `voting-app`, and re-create another one, and then cd into it, and run `$: npm run dev`.

Also note that the `voting-dapp` will run at `localhost:3000` by default. Feel free to check it out.

<br />

<span style="color: orange;">5.</span> Run the Solana `Testnet` validator toolchain in another WSL terminal using command:

```bash
solana-test-validator
```

You may nagivate to a parent directory of your `voting-dapp` project's working directory before running the `solana-test-validator` command.

Note that the Solana `Testnet` validator will run at port '8899' (`http://127.0.0.1:8899`) by default. And this `solana-test-validator` creates a new directory named `test-ledger`.

<b>Good to Know :</b>

You can check out `http://127.0.0.1:8899` and click on the button right next to your `Select Wallet` button that says `devnet` and then click on `local` from the drop-down. Optionally click on the `Account` menu to see information about the amount of Sol that you have locally. If you have followed this guide up till now, there will be no account to display. We'll fix that soon in step 6.

You can also use the Solana Explorer website [https://explorer.solana.com](https://explorer.solana.com) to look at everything that is happening on your local Validator. Simply click on the green button on the webpage that says `Mainnet Beta`, and then choose `Custom RPC URL` from the drop-down options.

For visuals, please check out [43:48 - 49:25] of the Bootcamp course video.

<br />

<span style="color: orange;">6.</span> Create your Solana wallet:

Now that everything pretty much works, namely - your project template was installed successfully, runs without any hitch, and can be read from the Solana Explorer website, it is now time to create your Solana wallet. Do the following:

- Stop your voting-dapp and solana-test-validator using `Ctrl + C`, if it is currently running.

- Follow the remainder of the instructions on this Solana Installation doc section of the webpage: [https://solana.com/docs/intro/installation#solana-cli-basics](https://solana.com/docs/intro/installation#solana-cli-basics). You do not have to change anything or make any choice unless you are told explicitly to do so.

<b>Also</b>, please note that you should have your Solana project (e.g, 'voting-dapp) running using command:

```bash
npm run dev
```

then

```bash
solana config set -ul
```

...before actually running the solana-test-validator command on a separate terminal:

```bash
solana-test-validator
```

Whether you run `solana-test-validator` before or after `npm run dev` doesn't actually matter.

<b>Good to Know :</b>

You only need to `$: solana config get` once. You can check your Solana balance using command:

```bash
solana balance
```

You can check your Solana address / pubkey using command:

```bash
solana address
```

And you can actually change your wallet address / generate a new one using command:

```bash
solana-keygen new --force
```

<br />

<b>Helpful Solana config commands include:</b>

```cmd
solana config set --url mainnet-beta
solana config set --url devnet
solana config set --url localhost
solana config set --url testnet
```

OR

```cmd
solana config set -um    # For mainnet-beta
solana config set -ud    # For devnet
solana config set -ul    # For localhost
solana config set -ut    # For testnet
```

</b>Good to Know:</b>

You can actually run wsl from VS code. Simple use your wsl terminal to navigate to the directory containing your code files and then use the `$: code .` command to open the project in VS Code.

It is very likely that when you run `$: solana --version` on VS-code for the first time as decribed above, it would see as though the solana-cli is lost on your machine (not installed anymore). Fret not, simply run the following command to fix this minor issue once and for all:

```bash
export PATH="$HOME/.local/share/solana/install/active_release/bin:$PATH"
```

Finally, please note that you have to navigate to the `anchor` directory inside your project, then enter the anchor build command before you actually run your Solana project using `$: npm run dev`. This is the anchor build command:

```bash
anchor build
```

By building the anchor directory inside your project, you make it easier for your project to detect your Solana wallet and connect to it.

Timestamp - [43:48 - 49:25]
